How to win peace in the Middle East
After the bombs should come a plan to reset the region

Share
Illustration of a white dove crossed with a B2 stealth bomber
Illustration: The Economist/Alamy
Jun 26th 2025
|
5 min read
Listen to this story
DONALD TRUMP gambled. But has he won? He has bombed Iran’s nuclear programme and immediately imposed a ceasefire on Israel and the Islamic Republic, and without a single American casualty. That is vindication over those who, like this newspaper, feared that Iran would lash out.

But the risks were only half the calculus: the other factor was whether America would be able to use a strike to stop Iran from building a nuclear weapon. The best way to accomplish that would now be for Mr Trump to reach a full nuclear agreement with the regime. He can bolster it by pressing the Middle East to solve its problems through trade and investment, rather than preparing for wars. Those are daunting tasks, but if Mr Trump even partially accomplished them, he would have secured a prize that has eluded his predecessors.

His efforts should begin with an assessment of how much his 14 bunker-busting bombs and 30 or so cruise missiles damaged three facilities in Iran. Characteristically, Mr Trump claimed to have “obliterated” the Iranian programme. Within days he was contradicted by a leaked assessment from the Defence Intelligence Agency that warned that Iran had been set back by only a few months. But it was preliminary and “low-confidence”. It, in turn, has been contradicted.

The furious row now unfolding must not obscure the central truth. Bombing alone was unlikely to verifiably destroy all Iran’s facilities and was never going to eliminate Iran’s nuclear know-how. Its purpose was to set back the programme or, better, persuade Iran that a nuclear weapon was not worth pursuing at all. Regardless of how much damage has been done, Mr Trump now needs to accept that this insight must be formalised in a nuclear agreement.

Read all our coverage of the war in the Middle East

The president has more than American bombers to help him. His raid was the culmination of a stunning 20-month Israeli campaign that has broken Iran’s two-decade strategy to extend its malign influence over the Middle East. Its nuclear programme cost tens of billions of dollars but, far from deterring a foreign attack, it provoked one. Iran spent tens of billions more on a network of militias and clients across the Middle East. One purpose was also to deter Israel from attacking Iran, but after being struck by Hamas on October 7th 2023 Israel took Iran’s proxy network apart.

Having been humiliated, Iran’s regime is at a fork in the road. It could chase a bomb, but if this was discovered the country would be isolated and face another round of attacks. It could also infuriate ordinary Iranians, who have endured hardship and repression even as their taxes have been frittered away by a regime that proved unable to defend them. The alternative is for the military officers who have increasingly elbowed aside the mullahs to conclude that waging a revolutionary struggle against Israel and America is a fight the republic cannot win—and that their own prosperity and survival would be better served by peaceful engagement.

Mr Trump can influence the regime’s choices by offering a nuclear deal in everyone’s interests. America should demand that Iran give up its stocks of highly enriched uranium and submit to intrusive international inspections. Iran should be able to enrich uranium to reactor grade, but under tough terms that require it to be part of a consortium of countries working offshore. In exchange, the negotiations should be about lifting European and American sanctions, as well as threats.

Do not imagine this will be easy. The urgent question is what became of Iran’s 400kg of highly enriched uranium, which was targeted in the American strikes. Nobody trusts Iran to tell the truth, but it will be very hard for the regime to prove what it doesn’t have, or for international inspectors to account for every kilogram after such extensive bombing. For its part, Iran trusts nobody, including the inspectors. The negotiations risk getting bogged down in recriminations.

That is why Mr Trump should also change Iran’s incentives to go nuclear by trying to set a new direction for the Middle East. Israel is now the region’s dominant military power. After October 7th, many Israelis have concluded that survival in a dangerous neighbourhood demands the relentless application of violence. Its armed forces strike targets in Lebanon and Syria at the first sign of an emerging threat. Far-right factions in its government want to use this dominance to annex Palestinian territory in Gaza and the West Bank.

After its victory over Iran, Israel should turn the page instead, as it did with Egypt after the war in 1973 and as it began to in 2020, when it normalised ties with several Arab states in the Abraham accords. The aim should now be a similar deal with Saudi Arabia. But that will require a ceasefire in Gaza, Israeli acknowledgment of the principle of two states and a move away from a permanent state of war.

To bring about a nuclear deal and normalisation will be very hard—especially for a president with a short attention span and a tendency to improvise. And yet Mr Trump has strengths. He dominates the Republican Party, so Binyamin Netanyahu, Israel’s prime minister, will struggle to outflank him in Congress. Having helped Israel, Mr Trump has earned the authority to bang heads together—as he did on the White House lawn on June 24th when he furiously demanded that Israel observe his ceasefire.

Putting the F into diplomacy
If Mr Trump loses interest, as is all too possible, the alternative will be bleak. If Iran’s nuclear programme looms once more, Israel will bomb Iran again. But a second or third campaign would be technically and diplomatically harder than the first. Iran would have learned lessons and the world would lose patience at the repeated use of war as a temporary fix. America, obliged to support Israel even if it did not fight alongside it, would find that the Middle East sucked in military resources and political focus that it wanted to direct towards Asia. Eventually, bombing could come to seem futile, driving a wedge between America and Israel. Mr Trump has gambled. If he is to win, much hard work lies ahead.

Kolkata: After three days of severe disruption, flight sched ..

Ramin Jahanbegloo writes: After Iran-Israel war, a different Middle East
Regime change is not an easy task. And Israel and US have been able to set back Iran's nuclear capacities without permanently removing the threat
Ramin Jahanbegloo writes: After Iran-Israel war, a different Middle East
Smokes rises from a building of the Soroka hospital complex after it was hit by a missile fired from Iran in Beersheba, Israel. (AP/PTI)

Ramin Jahanbegloo

Jun 26, 2025 08:32 IST
share-btn
Share
comment-btn
Comments
It has now become customary for people around the globe to take sides easily in the war between Israel and Iran and respond to the strategic and political needs of this confrontation rather than to answer to their own conscience. Right now, the correct question to ask is why we got here and, of course, the right answer is that the ideological face-to-face between the state of Israel and the Iranian regime during the past 40 years has been all about hegemony in the Middle East. On the one hand, the Iranian Shiite clerics and the Islamic Revolutionary Guards in Iran lived, until very recently, with the illusion that Iran was so powerful that it could fight back Israel and the US at the same time. For nearly five decades, the Iranian regime made the mistake of being immensely loudmouthed about its rhetoric against the state of Israel and minimising the US power in the Levant. This was intensified after the end of the eight-year war with Saddam Hussein’s Iraq, with the starring role played by the Iranian Revolutionary Guards, especially the Quds Force. The unexpected killing of Qassem Soleimani by the American military in Iraq during Donald Trump’s first presidency was a decisive step against the mastermind of Iran’s proxy wars in Iraq, Syria, Lebanon and Yemen. Despite the assassination of Soleimani, the Iranian regime continued to push forward its hegemonic perception of international relations in the Middle East and beyond.

In the past five years, the Iranian regime has tried to attack Israeli and American interests in the Middle East through its proxies, like the Lebanese Hezbollah, Hamas and the Houthis of Yemen. The Iranian people had to pay the price of the presence of this “syndrome of hegemony” by being isolated economically and politically through Trump’s maximum pressure campaign and the EU sanctions against Iran in response to its human rights abuses, nuclear proliferation activities and military support for Russia’s war in Ukraine. However, despite this, Iran continued to play a diplomatic game with the Biden administration and the EU, leaving Israel out of the equation each time in talks on the nature of Iranian nuclear sites. It also did not get involved in direct clashes with these two countries. However, on October 1, 2024, Iran fired more than 180 ballistic missiles at Israel, and on October 26, Israel responded with three waves of strikes against Iranian military targets. Unlike the recent war between the two countries, though, Iran and Israel did not aim at each other’s citizens, army officers or sensitive installations.

Mapping Israel’s expanding battlefronts across the Middle East
Israel has launched nearly 35,000 attacks across five countries over the past 20 months.

INTERACTIVE - Mapping Israel attacks-1750845166
[Al Jazeera]
By Mohamed A. Hussein
Published On 25 Jun 2025
25 Jun 2025
Save articles to read later and create your own reading list.

A fragile ceasefire remains in place between Israel and Iran, one day after US President Donald Trump announced a truce, ending 12 days of fighting that erupted following Israeli strikes on Tehran’s nuclear and military sites.

An analysis of data from the Armed Conflict Location and Event Data Project (ACLED) shows that between October 7, 2023, and just before Israel attacked Iran on June 13, 2025, Israel carried out nearly 35,000 recorded attacks across five countries: the occupied Palestinian territory, Lebanon, Syria, Yemen, and Iran.

Recommended Stories
list of 4 items
list 1 of 4
Videos expose racism over use of Israeli bomb shelters
list 2 of 4
Why Iran conflict has raised new questions about IAEA’s credibility
list 3 of 4
Israel thinks Netanyahu is victorious against Iran – what will he do next?
list 4 of 4
US didn’t destroy Iran’s nuclear program: What new intelligence report says
end of list
These attacks include air and drone strikes, shelling and missile attacks, remote explosives, and property destruction.

The majority of attacks have been on Palestinian territory with at least 18,235 recorded incidents, followed by Lebanon (15,520), Syria (616), Iran (58) and Yemen (39).



Israel’s long-range air war
While the bulk of Israel’s attacks have concentrated on nearby Gaza, the occupied West Bank, and Lebanon, its military operations have also reached far beyond its immediate borders.

Sign up for Al Jazeera
Breaking News Alert
Get real-time breaking news alerts and stay up-to-date with the most important headlines from around the globe.
E-mail address
Subscribe
By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy
protected by reCAPTCHA
Israeli fighter jets have extended their reach by hundreds and even thousands of kilometres, striking targets about 550km (roughly 340 miles) away deep inside Syria, as well as approximately 1,500km (900 miles) away in Iran, and Yemen, up to 2,000km (1,200 miles) away. These long-distance strikes have significantly widened the geographic scope of the conflict, marking a shift towards more regionally expansive military engagement.

These operations have been made possible by Israel’s fleet of advanced US-supplied aircraft, including F-15 and F-16 fighter jets, as well as the stealth-capable F-35 – the most sophisticated combat aircraft in Israel’s arsenal. The country has also relied heavily on drones for surveillance and targeted strikes.

INTERACTIVE_ISRAEL_MILITARY_OCT11_2023-1697022456
[Al Jazeera]
The map below shows the locations and quantity of Israeli attacks carried out between October 7, 2023, and June 13, 2025, in five countries up to 2,000km (1,200 miles) away.



Attacks on Gaza
After more than 628 days of relentless bombardment, blockade, and ground operations, Israel’s devastating assault in Gaza, widely described by many experts, human rights organisations, and international observers as genocide, is continuing.

According to the latest casualty figures from the Palestinian Ministry of Health in Gaza, at least 56,077 people have been confirmed killed and 131,848 injured.

Thousands more are feared dead, buried under the rubble.

INTERACTIVE - Israel attacks Gaza tracker death toll ceasefire June 24 2025-1750763717
[Al Jazeera]
Attacks on the occupied West Bank
Israel is applying many of the tactics used in its war on Gaza to seize and control territory across the occupied West Bank.

On January 21, just one day after a ceasefire took effect in Gaza, Israeli forces launched a large-scale military campaign across several cities in the northern occupied West Bank. The UN agency for Palestinian refugees (UNRWA) described it as “by far the longest and most destructive operation in the occupied West Bank since the second intifada in the 2000s.”

According to an analysis by the British research group Forensic Architecture, Israel has used building demolitions, armoured bulldozers, and air strikes to establish a permanent military presence in areas such as Jenin, Nur Shams and Tulkarem refugee camps. Satellite imagery shows widespread destruction, with entire neighbourhoods flattened and roads reconfigured to facilitate troop movements and surveillance.



The United Nations estimates that these operations have displaced at least 40,000 Palestinians. Over the past 20 months, Israeli forces and settlers have killed nearly 1,000 Palestinians across the occupied West Bank, including more than 200 children.

Israel-Lebanon cross-border attacks
On November 27, 2024, a ceasefire between Israel and Hezbollah came into effect, bringing an end to nearly 14 months of cross-border fighting that killed thousands of people.

As in Gaza and the occupied West Bank, Israeli attacks left widespread destruction in their wake, damaging numerous villages in southern Lebanon and entire neighbourhoods in Beirut.



Between October 7, 2023, and October 18, 2024, Israel, Hezbollah, and other Lebanese groups exchanged more than 13,600 cross-border attacks. Of these, approximately 83 percent (11,238 incidents) were carried out by Israel.

 

INTERACTIVE - Israel-Lebanon cross-border attacks-1728804675
[Al Jazeera]
Attacks on Syria
Since December 10, 2024, just two days after the stunning collapse of more than 53 years of the al-Assad family, Israel has waged a campaign of aerial bombardment that has destroyed much of Syria’s military infrastructure, including major airports, air defence facilities, fighter jets and other strategic infrastructure.

Over the past six months, Israeli forces have launched more than 200 air, drone or artillery attacks across Syria, averaging an assault roughly every three to four days, according to ACLED.

The map below shows the ACLED-recorded Israeli attacks between December 8 and May 30.



Attacks on Yemen
Israel has also targeted Houthi-controlled infrastructure in Yemen, including Sanaa International Airport, Hodeidah Port, and several power stations. These strikes, which intensified in late 2024 and continued into 2025, are intended to weaken Houthi military capabilities following their missile and drone attacks on Israel in solidarity with Palestinians in Gaza.

INTERACTIVE_YEMEN_CONTROL_MAP_MAY2_2025-1746167501

Sanaa airport
A satellite image shows the destroyed main terminal and control tower at Sanaa International Airport in the aftermath of an Israeli air strike, in Sanaa, Yemen, on May 7, 2025 [Maxar Technologies/Handout via Reuters]
Attacks on Iran
On June 13, 2025, Israel initiated a major escalation by launching a large-scale series of air and drone strikes deep into Iranian territory. This marked a significant shift in the conflict, as Israel targeted multiple sites across Iran, including military installations, weapons depots, and infrastructure linked to Iran’s regional influence and missile capabilities.

Using open source intelligence, including publicly circulated images and videos on social media, media reports, as well as visual identification of destroyed locations, Al Jazeera’s fact-checking unit, Sanad, has mapped some key Israeli and US strikes on Iran, as well as major Iranian attacks on Israel.

These attacks are shown on the maps below

Is it really truce in Middle East with Israel's unfulfilled war goals?
Early intelligence reports indicate that Iran may still be capable of resuming its nuclear programme. Meanwhile, the Iranian Parliament has passed a bill to sever ties with the IAEA, removing international oversight of its nuclear ambitions, which could further provoke the West. This threatens the fragile Middle East truce, risking potential escalation in the near future.
Listen to Story

Live TV
Share
Middle East
The war goals of Israel seemingly remain unfulfilled, and with Iran refusing to relent, the truce in the Middle East may not last long. (Photo: File)
India Today World Desk
India Today World Desk
New Delhi,UPDATED: Jun 26, 2025 18:30 IST
Written By: Anand Singh
The ceasefire between Iran and Israel is seemingly hanging by a thread.

A look at the chronology of events over the past two weeks points to a potential escalation in the near future, say experts.

A day after Iran's Fordow, Natanz, and Isfahan nuclear facilities were struck, US President Donald Trump said on Truth Social that if the current Iranian regime is unable to "Make Iran Great Again", a regime change would be inevitable.

The following day, on June 24, a ceasefire was announced between Iran and Israel, with Trump again claiming credit for the truce, just as he did during the flare-up between India and Pakistan in May.

Another day passed, and Trump's stance, like a reed in the wind, shifted again. This time, the US President said he did not want Ayatollah Ali Khamenei's leadership to be replaced, stating, "Regime change takes chaos, and ideally we don't want to see so much chaos."

On the matter of the US bombing of Iran's nuclear sites, the latter did admit that the sites were hit. Speaking to Al Jazeera, Iran's foreign ministry spokesperson said, "Our nuclear installations have been badly damaged, that's for sure".

But according to an early Pentagon intelligence assessment reported by the BBC, the three nuclear sites bombed by the US were not completely destroyed. The strikes have reportedly only delayed Tehran's nuclear program by a few months.

Sources familiar with the Defence Intelligence Agency told CBS, the BBC's US partner, that the Islamic Republic’s stockpile of enriched uranium was not eliminated in Saturday's bombings.

The BBC also reported that Pentagon intelligence sources believe Iran's centrifuges are largely intact, with the damage limited to above-ground structures.

Trump has rejected these claims, much as he did US Director of National Intelligence Tulsi Gabbard's March assertion that Iran was not building nuclear weapons. However, Gabbard later reversed her position.

ISRAEL'S GOALS UNACHIEVED
It’s worth noting that when Operation Rising Lion began nearly a fortnight ago on June 13, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu had said that assassinating Khamenei would "end the conflict".

Now, with the truce in place and Khamenei emerging from a bunker, one of Israel's two primary war-ending objectives remains unfulfilled.

In his first public address since a brief war with Israel came to an end, Khamenei claimed victory over Israel and slammed the US for their direct involvement in the war, saying it was "a heavy slap to America's face".

It must be noted that the war between Iran and Israel began soon after the Axis of Resistance (AoR) was weakened by Israeli and American offensives.

Mohanad Hage Ali, a senior fellow at the Carnegie Middle East Centre in Beirut, Lebanon, was quoted as saying in the New York Times, “It (AoR) has been transformed into an axis of sitting ducks waiting for the next Israeli strikes rather than taking initiative and pushing Israel into the defence, as was the case just a few years ago.”

Analysts say Iran, feeling diminished regionally, yet possessing the potential to develop nuclear weapons, was bombed by Israel, which alleged it was just steps away from building nine nuclear bombs, though without conclusive evidence from either the US or Israel.

But despite being isolated due to its designation as a “State Sponsor of Terrorism” by the US, and facing restrictions on financial systems and foreign aid, Iran has not bowed to US and Israeli pressure.

If the US has actually missed bombing Iran's nuclear facilities as reports suggest, especially the biggest one in Fordow, Israel's main goal of undermining Iran's nuclear ambitions also remains unfulfilled.

Amid these developments, Iran has passed a bill effectively suspending its cooperation with the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), a UN watchdog. Tehran argues that the IAEA’s resolution, issued just a day before Israel’s strikes, was politically motivated and claimed Iran was not meeting its nuclear safeguard commitments.

In a joint statement, Iran's Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Atomic Energy Organisation condemned the resolution, saying it “seriously undermines the credibility and integrity of the IAEA.”

Tehran has repeatedly insisted that its nuclear program is intended for civilian purposes, and that its facilities were consistently monitored by the UN watchdog.

But now, with threats mounting in a region surrounded by hostile neighbours, Iran may be compelled to develop nuclear weapons — an outcome that recent US strikes have reportedly only delayed by a few months.

With international oversight gone, Iran's next moves could inflame tensions with the West and Israel even more. Trump has already said that if Iran rebuilds its nuclear programme, the US will again launch strikes.

Even Iran’s secretariat of the supreme national security council said a statement carried by Iranian media outlet Fars, “The armed forces of the Islamic Republic of Iran, without the slightest trust in the words of the enemies, and with their hands on the trigger, will be ready to give a decisive and regrettable response to any act of aggression by the enemy.”

With two highly unpredictable allies facing off against a state that refuses to relent, the truce may prove exceptionally hard to maintain.


Iran Threatens to Target US Military Bases in Middle East: 'If An Attack Is Made...'
Edited by: Apoorva ShuklaUpdated Jun 27, 2025, 08:26 IST
Trump Khamenei
Iran's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei (left), United States President Donald Trump (right)

follow us
follow us
Iran would respond to any future US attack by striking American military bases in the Middle East, Supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei said, in his first televised remarks since a ceasefire was reached between Iran and Israel, reported Reuters.
"The Islamic Republic slapped America in the face. It attacked one of the important American bases in the region," Khamenei said in his first address since ceasefire. "The fact that the Islamic Republic has access to important American centres in the region and can take action against them whenever it deems necessary is not a small incident, it is a major incident, and this incident can be repeated in the future if an attack is made," the Iran's supreme leader said, as quoted by Reuters.
"The US. President Trump unveiled the truth and made it clear that Americans won't be satisfied with anything less than surrender... such an event will never happen," Khamenei added.

How a volatile 24 hours edged Iran and Israel to a ceasefire
2 days ago

Share

Save
Sean Seddon
BBC News
EPA Donald TrumpEPA
Since 13 June, Israel has inflicted widespread damage on Iran's military infrastructure, Iranian missiles have pierced Israel's defence systems and the US has conducted strikes against Tehran's nuclear programme.

Then, over the course of a dizzying 24 hours beginning on Monday, events moved even faster: a US air base came under attack, the White House mediated a ceasefire between Iran and Israel, and that deal came close to unravelling.

This is how that volatile day unfolded.

'Shelter in place'
USAF The Al-Udeid in QatarUSAF
The al-Udeid US military base in Qatar, pictured in 2004
07:00 Washington DC / 12:00 London / 14:00 Tel Aviv / 14:30 Tehran

The first signs that the conflict gripping the Middle East was about to spread to the Gulf was a calmly worded warning to US citizens in Qatar.

"Shelter in place" was the recommendation from the US government - with an attached reassurance that this was "out of an abundance of caution".

The UK issued similar advice shortly after.

It was always feasible Iran would strike back at America in Qatar. The country is home to the al-Udeid military base, a sprawling installation outside the capital, Doha, which houses thousands of troops and is where US air operations in the Middle East are orchestrated.

Leaders in Tehran had threatened retaliation for unprecedented US strikes over the weekend against three nuclear facilities in Iran, including its prized Fordo enrichment site, buried deep below a mountain.

From the bunker where he has reportedly been sheltering since Israel launched its military operation against Iran, it seemed Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei had issued an order: to hit back against the US at one of its most strategically important assets in the region.

Follow the latest Middle East updates on our live page
'Credible threat'
12:00 Washington DC / 17:00 London / 19:00 Tel Aviv / 19:30 Tehran

The airspace above Qatar is closed, its government announced.

Air traffic controllers in Doha hurriedly started turning passenger planes back, and flights bound for one of the world's busiest airports began to land elsewhere in the Gulf.

The BBC then learned of a "credible threat" from an Iranian missile attack against the al-Udeid air base.

Unnamed US officials briefed American media that missile launchers had been sighted pointing in the direction of Qatar.

US Defence Secretary Pete Hegseth and his most senior general headed for the White House to monitor the situation.

Within the hour, explosions were heard over Doha and the sky above its lavish skyscrapers was streaked with trails left behind by air defence missiles as they hunted down Iranian weapons in the air.

'Not strength but vulnerabilities'


0:58
Video shows air defences over Qatar as Iran attacks US base
13:00 Washington DC / 18:00 London / 20:00 Tel Aviv / 20:30 Tehran

Iran's state-controlled media began to report its retaliation was under way. Shortly after, the Iran's revolutionary guards confirmed as much.

"US bases in the region are not strengths but vulnerabilities," it said - but the attack was over soon after.

Qatar reacted before the US. Though the target was the US base on its soil, its sovereignty had been violated by "brazen aggression", a furious government statement read.

But crucially, it confirmed the missiles had been intercepted. The base had been evacuated before the attack began and no one had been killed or injured.

At around the same time, an inflammatory illustration appeared on the supreme leader's X account, depicting missiles reigning down on a US military base as a tattered American flag burned.

However, rather than heralding any destruction, he wrote: "We didn't harm anyone."

It was beginning to appear that the US and Qatar had known about the planned Iranian attack in advance.

To outside analysts, it looked as though it had been designed to allow Iran's leaders to save face but avoid escalation.

They could tell their public they had retaliated against the Americans - but they did so without inflicting the sort of loss that would risk dragging it into a direct war against a far more powerful adversary.

A de-escalation was in sight - and the world waited for the president of the United States to log on to social media.

'Time for peace'
Reuters People watch from a bridge as flames from an Israeli attack rise from Sharan Oil depotReuters
Israel has struck military, security and energy targets throughout Iran, including the Sharan oil depot near Tehran on 15 June
16:00 Washington DC / 21:00 London / 23:00 Tel Aviv / 23:30 Tehran

"Weak." "Expected." "Effectively countered."

That was how Donald Trump described Iran's attack - but as his message continued, the tone was more conciliatory.

The president thanked Iran "for giving us early notice" and said they had "gotten it all out of their 'system'."

He went on: "Perhaps Iran can now proceed to Peace and Harmony in the Region, and I will enthusiastically encourage Israel to do the same."

Two hours earlier, Iran had attacked a US air base. Two days earlier, Trump had ordered unprecedented strikes against Iran, a country he has deemed evil and a mortal danger to the world in the past.

Now he was offering its leaders an olive branch.

Concluding a series of posts which sent observers into a tailspin, he wrote: "CONGRATULATIONS WORLD, IT'S TIME FOR PEACE!"

'The 12 Day War'
Maxar A satellite view shows an overview of Fordow underground complex, after the U.S. struck the underground nuclear facility, near QomMaxar
The White House pushed for an agreement to end the conflict after striking the Fordo nuclear site overnight on Saturday
18:00 Washington DC / 23:00 London / 01:00 Tel Aviv / 01:30 Tehran

It has since emerged that frantic talks were under way behind the scenes involving the US, Iran, Israel and Qatar.

Donald Trump spoke directly to Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, a close ally whose war on Iran the president had briefly joined. The call took place in private but the message was apparent: it was time to end the fighting.

Meanwhile, Trump's deputy JD Vance and his chief international negotiator Steve Witkoff were reaching out to the Iranians directly and via diplomatic backchannels.

From Washington, Trump's team was attempting to hastily piece together something prized above all else by the US president, but which has proven so elusive in the Middle East: a deal.

Reports of success and competing denials began to swirl - but slowly and surely, momentum appeared to build as reports of progress emerged.

Then, just after 11:00 BST, the president took to social media again. His message to began: "CONGRATULATIONS TO EVERYONE".

A complete and total ceasefire had been agreed between Iran and Israel, the president wrote. There would be a grace period for "in progress, final missions", and it would come into force six hours later.

The conflict should henceforth be known as "the 12 Day War", Trump wrote.

Six thousands miles away in the Middle East, another day was dawning.

'Last round of missiles'
EPA Rescue workers looking at a destroyed building in BeershebaEPA
A residential building was destroyed in Beersheba in Israel on Tuesday morning
22:00 Washington DC / 03:00 London / 05:00 Tel Aviv / 05:30 Tehran

Across Israel, sirens began to sound and people were ordered to shelters: Iranian missiles were incoming, the Israel Defense Forces warned.

Across a period of less than 60 minutes, Israel said Iran had launched three waves of missiles. Several more would follow as the morning wore on, the Israeli military said.

In Beersheba, there was a direct hit on a multi-storey residential building. Four people - at least three of whom were hiding in a safe room - were killed when a missile tore through it.

Israel's prime minister accused Iran of deploying one of the largest missiles in its arsenal against the homes.

At the same time, Iranian media reported it had sustained heavy strikes by Israel overnight, killing nine in the northern town of Astaneh-ye Ashrafiyeh. Mohammad Reza Seddiqi Saberi, a nuclear scientist, was reportedly among them.

The region's deputy governor said four apartments "were completely destroyed, and many surrounding houses were damaged due to the explosion". Pictures from the scene showed debris scattered across a street surrounded by houses.

BBC Persian Debris scattered on a street in Iran after an Israeli missile strikeBBC Persian
The scene in northern Iran after an Israeli missile strike
Iran accused Israel of firing "a last round of missiles" to beat the ceasefire deadline.

The Israeli military later confirmed it had carried out operations overnight, while the Iraqi government claimed drones had targeted bases on its territory. Pro-Iranian armed militias operate in Iraq but it is not clear what was targeted.

What was clear was that the fighting was continuing until the very last moment.

'Ceasefire is now in effect'
Reuters A missile launched from Iran towards Israel in the skyReuters
Missiles launched towards Israel were pictured overnight on Monday
01:00 Washington DC / 06:00 London / 08:00 Tel Aviv / 08:30 Tehran

Trump declared the beginning of the ceasefire in a social media post, writing: "THE CEASEFIRE IS NOW IN EFFECT. PLEASE DO NOT VIOLATE IT!"

Shortly after, the Israeli government formally accepted the ceasefire arrangements.

A statement said Israel had achieved its war objectives of eliminating Iran's nuclear and ballistic missile capabilities, and had taken its place among "world powers" as a result.

Iran's foreign minister Seyed Abbas Araghchi had already indicated overnight that Tehran was open to the ceasefire put forward by Trump. He said that if Israel stopped its attacks before 04:00 local time, then "we have no intention to continue our response afterwards".

But it would not take long until it looked as though that ceasefire was in peril.

Air defences were activated when a missile was launched from Iran, the Israeli military said.

Iran issued denials, but Israel's defence minister said he had ordered "intense strikes against regime targets in the heart of Tehran", while Bezalel Smotrich - a far-right government minister - warned: "Tehran will shake."

It looked as thought Trump's rapidly assembled deal might be unravelling a couple of hours after it came into force.

With Israeli jets on their way to the Iranian capital, Trump posted again: "DO NOT DROP THOSE BOMBS. IF YOU DO IT IS A MAJOR VIOLATION. BRING YOUR PILOTS HOME, NOW!"

'These guys got to calm down'
EPA Donald Trump speaking on the White House lawnEPA
07:00 Washington DC / 12:00 London / 14:00 Tel Aviv / 14:30 Tehran

As morning broke in Washington DC, the US president stepped onto the White House lawn, where a helicopter was waiting to take him to a Nato summit.

Reporters were also waiting, eager to hear what he had to say after a dizzying night of announcements, claims and denials.

Both Israel and Iran had violated the ceasefire, Trump told them - but he insisted the deal was still in place.

Referencing the Israeli jets he had urged Netanyahu to turn back, he said: "There was one [Iranian] rocket that I guess was fired overboard after the time limit and now Israel is going out. These guys [have] got to calm down."

Trump said the Iranian missile was fired "perhaps by mistake" and "didn't land".

The president appeared angry. He said he was "not happy with Israel" for launching strikes "the likes of which I've never seen before" just as the deal was agreed.

"I'm not happy with Iran either," he added.

As Trump turned to walk away, he vented his frustration with Israel and Iran, using an expletive as he said they had been fighting so long that they don't know what they're doing.

The helicopter took him to a military base in Maryland, where he was to board Air Force One and fly to the Netherlands for the summit.

Once in the air, he called Netanyahu, a conversation which appears to have been a tense one.

A White House source told CBS News, the BBC's US partner, that the president was "exceptionally firm and direct" with the Israeli prime minister. Netanyahu "understood the severity of the situation and the concerns President Trump expressed".

Trump reportedly confirmed to reporters on board that he had told Netanyahu to bring back the military aircraft, which he indicated were on the verge of attacking Iran.

As for leaders in Tehran, Trump said that developing a nuclear weapon would be the "last thing" on their minds.

Israel-Iran war highlights Mideast's declining influence on oil prices
Ron Bousso
Ron Bousso

June 25, 20254:30 PM GMT+5:30Updated June 25, 2025



A drone view shows a portion of the crude oil tank farm in Midland, Texas
A drone view shows a portion of the crude oil tank farm in Midland, Texas, U.S. June 11, 2025. REUTERS/Eli Hartman/ File Photo Purchase Licensing Rights, opens new tab
Summary
Brent oil prices rise by 15% before quickly returning to pre-conflict levels
Price reaction points to the market's growing efficiency thanks to technology
Share of OPEC has diminished in recent decades to around 33%
LONDON, June 25 - The contained move in oil prices during the Israel-Iran war highlights the increasing efficiency of energy markets and fundamental changes to global crude supply, suggesting that Middle East politics will no longer be the dominant force in oil markets they once were.
The jump in oil prices following Israel's surprise attack on Iran was meaningful but relatively modest considering the high stakes involved in the conflict between the Middle East rivals.
The Reuters Tariff Watch newsletter is your daily guide to the latest global trade and tariff news. Sign up here.
Benchmark Brent crude prices, often considered a gauge for geopolitical risk, rose from below $70 a barrel on June 12, the day before Israel’s initial attack, to a peak of $81.40 on June 23 following the United States' strikes on Iranian nuclear facilities.
Prices, however, dropped sharply that same day after it became clear Iran’s retaliation against Washington – a well-telegraphed attack on a U.S. military base in Qatar that caused limited damage – was essentially an act of de-escalation. Prices then fell to below pre-war levels at $67 on Tuesday after U.S. President Donald Trump announced that Israel and Iran had agreed to a ceasefire.
The doomsday scenario for energy markets – Iran blocking the Strait of Hormuz, through which nearly 20% of the world’s oil and gas supplies pass – did not occur. In fact, there was almost no disruption to flows out of the Middle East throughout the duration of the conflict.
So, for the time being, it looks like markets were right not to panic.
Oil supply shocks
Oil supply shocks
SHRINKING RISK PREMIUM
The moderate 15% low-to-high swing during this conflict suggests oil traders and investors have slashed the risk premium for geopolitical tensions in the Middle East.
Consider the impact on prices of previous tensions in the region. The 1973 Arab oil embargo led to a near quadrupling of oil prices. Disruption to Iranian oil output, opens new tab following the 1979 revolution led to a doubling of spot prices. Iraq's invasion of neighbouring Kuwait in August 1990 caused the price of Brent crude to double to $40 a barrel by mid-October. And the start of the second Gulf war in 2003 led to a 46% surge in prices.
While many of these supply disruptions – with the exception of the oil embargo – ended up being brief, markets reacted violently.
One, of course, needs to be careful when comparing conflicts because each is unique, but the oil market's response to major disruptions in the Middle East has – in percentage terms, at least – progressively diminished in recent decades.
OPEC's share of global production has diminished
OPEC's share of global production has diminished
SENSE AND SENSIBILITY
There are multiple potential explanations for this change in the perceived value of the Middle East risk premium.
First, markets may simply be more rational than in the past given access to better news, data and technology.
Investors have become extremely savvy in keeping tabs on near-live energy market conditions. Using satellite ship tracking and aerial images of oilfields, ports and refineries, traders can monitor oil and gas production and transportation, enabling them to better understand supply and demand balances than was possible in previous decades.
In this latest conflict, markets certainly responded rationally.
The risk of a supply disruption increased, so prices did as well, but not excessively because there were significant doubts about Iran's actual ability or willingness to disrupt maritime activity over a long period of time.
Another explanation for the limited price moves could be that producers in the region – again, rational actors – learned from previous conflicts and responded in kind by building alternative export routes and storage to limit the impact of any disruption in the Gulf.
Saudi Arabia, the world's top oil exporter, producing around 9 million bpd, nearly a tenth of global demand, now has a crude pipeline running from the Gulf coast to the Red Sea port city of Yanbu in the west, which would have allowed it to bypass the Strait of Hormuz. The pipeline has capacity of 5 million bpd and could probably be expanded by another 2 million bpd.
Additionally, the United Arab Emirates, another major OPEC and regional producer, with output of around 3.3 million bpd of crude, has a 1.5 million bpd pipeline linking its onshore oilfields to the Fujairah oil terminal that is east of the Strait of Hormuz.
Both countries, as well as Kuwait and Iran, also have significant storage facilities in Asia and Europe that would allow them to continue supplying customers even through brief disruptions.
Share of OPEC in global oil supply
Share of OPEC in global oil supply
SHIFTING FUNDAMENTALS
Perhaps the most important reason for the world's diminishing concern over Mideast oil supply disruptions is the simple fact that a smaller percentage of the world’s energy supplies now comes from the Middle East.
In recent decades, oil production has surged in new basins such as the United States, Brazil, Guyana, Canada and even China.
OPEC’s share of global oil supply declined from over 50% in the 1970s to 37% in 2010 and further to 33% in 2023, according to the International Energy Agency, largely because of surge in shale oil production in the United States, the world’s largest energy consumer.
To be sure, the global oil market was well supplied going into the latest conflict, further alleviating concerns.
Ultimately, therefore, the Israel-Iran war is further evidence that the link between Middle East politics and energy prices has loosened, perhaps permanently. So geopolitical risk may keep rising, but don’t expect energy prices to follow suit.
The Middle East Is in Turmoil. U.S. Frackers See No Reason to Pump More Oil.
Well-supplied markets and weakening demand for crude concern American drillers
By 
Benoît Morenne
Follow
Updated June 23, 2025 5:55 pm ET


Share

Resize

Listen

(2 min)


The U.S. has urged China, Iran’s biggest oil customer, to stop Tehran from closing the Strait of Hormuz, which handles about 20% of global petroleum. WSJ’s Austin Ramzy looks at just how much influence Beijing has. Photo: Iranian Presidency/Zuma Press
President Trump warned American oil producers Monday that he was watching closely for a crude price spurt as the Middle East appeared close to a regional war, and he urged the Energy Department to “drill, baby, drill.” But frackers have no immediate plans to pump more crude.

They have wrestled with lower oil prices in recent months and have been steadily shedding oil rigs and sending crews that frack wells home. A long list of factors inhibit their appetite for pumping more oil, from a global economic slowdown to pressure from tariffs and a wave of new crude supplies inundating already well-sated markets.
Crude Oil Plunges After Ceasefire Talk In Middle East Nation Madhusudan Sahoo 24 June 2025 8:03 PM “Now, with the ceasefire announced, the scenario of ceasefire with Israel has come into effect, and crude oil prices are likely to stabilise around $65" : Report Crude Oil Prices — Screengrab/X New Delhi: The Indian oil sector on Tuesday heaved a sigh of relief as crude oil dipped significantly in the early trade from Monday’s record high of $78.53 a barrel. However, oil prices plunged by more than 5 percent for the day, hitting a two-week low after Israel agreed to a ceasefire announced by US President Donald Trump to end hostilities with Iran. This sharp decline in prices is due to easing fears over oil supply disruptions in the Middle East after the truce. Also Read - Rajnath Meets Chinese Counterpart; Stresses Avoiding New Complexities In Ties The crude oil prices are now showing a downward trend and expected to remain around $65-70 per barrel after the most ‘sought-after’ deal of a ceasefire between Iran and Israel by Trump, followed by the confirmation of both the countries. In the opening trade, the Brent crude dropped significantly as much as $65 per barrel amid a buzz over a possible ceasefire between Israel and Iran, and the correction continued to hold below the $70 per barrel-mark. Also Read - NYC Mayoral Candidate Zohran Mamdani Faces Heat From Indian Politicians Experts, however, said that with the tensions now easing, global oil markets may return to stability, which is a major positive for oil-importing countries like India. “However, lower oil prices are expected to help reduce the current account deficit and support economic growth,” they said. As per a SBI report, different scenarios being built along the Iran-Israel conflict seem a little far-fetched, especially a worst-case scenario, on oil’s trajectory, given that any sharp increase in prices may not be a long-term phenomenon. “Now, with the ceasefire announced, the scenario of ceasefire with Israel has come into effect, and crude oil prices are likely to stabilise around $65,” the report said. Also Read - Mamata Banerjee Objects To New Rules of EC For Voters As per the report, if Iran had chosen a path of substantial retaliation against the US and the conflict had widened regionally, oil prices could have jumped sharply, reaching as high as $130-40 per barrel and this would have created a major shock for oil-importing countries. “However, another scenario of considering symbolic retaliation by Iran and continued conflict with Israel, would have kept crude oil prices steady around $80-90 per barrel,” the report said. The report further stated that the only event that could have led to sustained prices above the crude price of $130 would be the use of weapons of mass destruction by either side, a situation so severe that its cost cannot be measured through normal economic models.

Oil prices drop 6% as Israel-Iran ceasefire reduces Middle East supply risk
By Scott Disavino
June 25, 202512:54 AM GMT+5:30Updated June 25, 2025



Summary
Companies
US President Trump accuses both sides of violating ceasefire
Analysts see less risk to Middle East oil supplies
Trump says China can continue to purchase oil from Iran
NEW YORK, June 24 (Reuters) - Oil prices fell 6% on Tuesday to settle at a two-week low, on expectations the ceasefire between Israel and Iran will reduce the risk of oil supply disruptions in the Middle East.
The ceasefire was on shaky ground with U.S. President Donald Trump accusing both Israel and Iran of violating it just hours after it was announced.
The Reuters Power Up newsletter provides everything you need to know about the global energy industry. Sign up here.
Brent crude futures fell $4.34, or 6.1%, to settle at $67.14 a barrel. U.S. West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude fell $4.14, or 6.0%, to settle at $64.37.
Settlement was the lowest for Brent since June 10 and WTI since June 5, both before Israel launched a surprise attack on key Iranian military and nuclear facilities on June 13.
"The geopolitical risk premium built up since the first Israeli strike on Iran almost two weeks ago has entirely vanished," said Tamas Varga, a senior analyst at TP ICAP's PVM Oil Associates brokerage and consulting firm.
On Monday, both oil contracts settled down more than 7%. They had rallied to five-month highs after the U.S. attacked Iran's nuclear facilities over the weekend.
Brent crude oil futures touched five-months highs on Sunday evening after U.S. strikes on Iran over the weekend, but ended the session over 7% lower as the market viewed Iran's retaliatory attack on a U.S. base in Qatar as de-escalatory.
Brent crude oil futures touched five-months highs on Sunday evening after U.S. strikes on Iran over the weekend, but ended the session over 7% lower as the market viewed Iran's retaliatory attack on a U.S. base in Qatar as de-escalatory.
Direct U.S. involvement in the war had investors worried about the Strait of Hormuz, a narrow waterway between Iran and Oman, through which between 18 million and 19 million barrels per day (bpd) of crude oil and fuels flow, nearly a fifth of global consumption.
Prices also fell as Trump said China, the world's biggest oil importer, can continue to purchase oil from Iran.
A woman walks on a street in Tehran
A woman walks on a street, amid the Iran-Israel conflict, in Tehran, Iran, June 23, 2025. Majid Asgaripour/WANA (West Asia News Agency) via REUTERS Purchase Licensing Rights, opens new tab
In other supply news, Kazakhstan's state energy company KazMunayGaz raised its forecast for oil output at the Chevron-led (CVX.N), opens new tab Tengiz oilfield, the country's largest, to 35.7 million metric tons in 2025 from 34.8 million tons expected previously.
Kazakhstan is a member of the OPEC+ group of countries that includes the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and allies. Several other OPEC+ members have also been increasing output.
In Guyana, oil output rose to 667,000 bpd in May from 611,000 bpd in April, fueled by increases at two of three production facilities operated by U.S. major Exxon Mobil (XOM.N), opens new tab.
U.S. ECONOMY AND OIL INVENTORIES
Another factor weighing on oil prices came from U.S. consumer confidence, which unexpectedly deteriorated in June as households increasingly worried about job availability and economic uncertainty from Trump's tariffs.
Federal Reserve Bank of New York President John Williams said he expects slower growth and higher inflation this year due in large part to trade tariffs, in comments that suggested he was in no rush to cut interest rates, which could boost economic growth and oil demand.
The American Petroleum Institute (API) trade group and the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) were due to release U.S. oil inventory data, ,
Analysts forecast energy firms pulled about 0.8 million barrels of oil from U.S. stockpiles during the week ended June 20.
If correct, that would be the first time energy firms pulled oil from storage for five weeks in a row since January. That compares with a build of 3.6 million barrels during the same week last year and an average decrease of 2.5 million barrels over the past five years (2020-2024).
The API releases its numbers on Tuesday and the EIA on Wednesday.

How the Aftermath of the Suez Canal Crisis Limited European Influence in the Middle East
Currently, American forces are stretched thin and will need assistance from allies to counter emboldened adversaries such as Russia, China, North Korea, Iran, and their proxies.

Julian McBride
By
Julian McBride
By
Julian McBride
May 31, 2025

Aerial view of the Suez Canal at Suez. Image source: Wikipedia
The United States and Europe are currently disagreeing regarding foreign policy and military reorganization endeavors. President Trump wants European nations to step up their defense on the continent. Still, some of his cabinet members want more European contributions to American-led military operations in the Middle East, particularly in Yemen.

Currently, American forces are stretched thin and will need assistance from allies to counter emboldened adversaries such as Russia, China, North Korea, Iran, and their proxies. Nevertheless, a major reason for the lack of assistance regarding Middle East operations correlates with the aftermath of the Suez Canal Crisis, which limited European force projection in the region.

America’s Rift with Europe Over Anti-Houthi Operations

Against the backdrop of the Israeli-Hamas War in late 2023, Ansar Allah, commonly known as the Houthis, intervened. By targeting commercial shipping and firing ballistic missiles at Israel, the Houthis look to force the international community to apply substantial pressure on the Israeli government to end the war.

Instead, Israel continues the war in Gaza to eliminate Hamas, and the Houthis, supplemented by Iran, continue missile and drone attacks in the Red Sea, which is having a major effect on global shipping. In early 2024, the Biden Administration conducted Operation Prosperity Guardian, a coalition of countries, in an attempt to deter the Houthis, which ultimately proved inconclusive.

Digressing from the deterrence campaign of the former President Biden, the current Trump Administration conducted a much heavier campaign against Ansar Allah in Yemen. However, the campaign faced major hurdles as the United States used limited and critical munitions against the unconventional militia, such as Tomahawk cruise missiles, which are critically needed in a potential war against China.

According to texts leaked from Signalgate, the Trump Administration disagreed on how to proceed with the current military campaign in the Red Sea. Vice President Vance and former National Security Adviser Mike Waltz displayed ire over what they see as helping Europe, which relies on shipping in the Red Sea as much as the United States.

Nevertheless, one reason Europe is handicapped in operations in the region has hallmarks dating back to the 1956 Suez Canal Crisis.

How the American Response to the Suez Canal Crisis Changed European Foreign Policy

In the aftermath of World War II, various European colonial powers attempted to retain their empires and global influences, even though their economies declined due to the worldwide conflict. In late October 1956, Egypt’s autocratic leader, Gamal Abdel Nasser, nationalized ownership of the Suez Canal from the Suez Canal Company, whose shares were owned by France and the United Kingdom.

Under fears of losing influence and economic interests in the Middle East, the French and British, alongside the Israelis, secretly planned an invasion of Egypt to reclaim the Suez Canal and dispose of Nasser, especially as the United States government remained idle to the political grievances.

On October 29th, 1956, the Israeli, French, and British militaries conducted their operation to claim the Suez, incapacitating the Egyptian army within a week and reaching almost all of their operational goals. However, political consequences became far-reaching as American President Dwight D. Eisenhower and Soviet Premier Nikita Khrushchev would not only condemn the invasion but also publicly rein in the aggression.

Khrushchev threatened armed conflict with the UK and France, which would have led to World War III, and Eisenhower threatened to withdraw bonds and IMF funds from the UK and France unless both countries accepted the new status quo. Effectively, the UK and France were reduced to being vassals of the United States and could no longer conduct autonomous foreign policy endeavors without approval from the U.S. government.

Indeed, the British government acknowledged the new world reality when Prime Minister Harold Macmillan made his famous “winds of change” speech, in which he admitted the United States and Soviet Union were the new world superpowers as the old world slowly faded.

The security gaps from the crisis are being felt today.

The aftermath of the Suez Canal Crisis effectively put Europe into vassal status, but it simultaneously became a double-edged sword for the United States. Arab nations were able to get more autonomy from Europe. Still, simultaneously, European countries would focus on regional security rather than intertwine themselves in the affairs of the Middle East and North Africa (MENA).

The United States, the Soviet Union, and one of its successors, Russia, would retain influence in the Middle East. Today, American armed forces conduct the most extensive military operations in the MENA region, which is leading to overextension of forces when adversaries such as China and North Korea become more emboldened.

Perpetual wars in Iraq and Afghanistan and extensive operations in Syria, Libya, and Somalia left security gaps that the United States needed help to fill. With Europe’s minimal force projection and influence, America took the brunt of adventurism in the region. Outside of British bases in Cyprus and the UK and French navies, no other European country has force projection capabilities to sustain operations in the Middle East.

The Trump Administration, realizing operations against the Houthis produced minimal results, would broker a ceasefire with the Houthis using Oman as a mediator.

Actions taken by multiple global powers during the Suez Canal Crisis and the effects of the conflict’s aftermath still ring true today, as America finds itself overextended in the Middle East and North Africa without European force projection. Amidst heightened global tensions, Europe will need to reconstruct and reconstitute its defense. Still, simultaneously, the United States should apply the same pressure on MENA countries to take charge of their security obligations to avoid perpetual conflict quagmires.

New Delhi: At least 48 flights to and from the Middle East,  ..

Read more at:

ndiGo, Air India, other airlines reroute Middle East flights amid tensions | All advisories inside
By
HT News Desk
Jun 24, 2025 05:34 PM IST
Middle East tension: Israel and Iran accepted a ceasefire plan proposed by the US, bringing a halt to their 12-day war that shook the entire Middle East region.
As the tensions in the Middle East further escalated with Iranian attacks on a US airbase in Qatar on Monday night, several airlines in India issued advisories for passengers, with some even cancelling all their flights to the region.

Air India also ceased all its flights to and from the East Coast of North America and Europe. (PTI/Reuters)
Air India also ceased all its flights to and from the East Coast of North America and Europe. (PTI/Reuters)
Both Israel and Iran, however, decided to end their 12-day war on Tuesday by accepting a ceasefire deal proposed by US President Donald Trump. Follow Israel Iran war news live updates

Know the latest trending news with HT. Read detailed articles here
Air India advisory
Air India ceased all its operations to the Middle East region, as well as flights to and from the East Coast of North America and Europe, "with immediate effect at midnight, shortly after Iranian strikes hit a US base in Qatar.

An Air India spokesperson said, "Our India-bound flights from North America are diverting back to their respective origins and others are being diverted back to India or re-routed away from the closed airspaces. We request the understanding of all passengers who may be affected by this disruption that’s beyond an airline’s control."

ALSO READ | Israel, Iran and the US claim victory after 12-day intense war. Who really won?
The spokesperson added that the airline is continuously consulting its external security advisors in view of the situation, and is "vigilantly monitoring" the evolving situation. “We will keep our passengers informed of any updates,” they added.

Air India resuming some flights: Later in the day, a spokesperson for the airline said that Air India "will progressively resume flights" to the Middle East from Tuesday as airspaces gradually reopen in parts of the Middle East.

"Flights to and from Europe, previously cancelled, are also being progressively reinstated from today, while services to and from the East Coast of the U.S. and Canada will resume at the earliest opportunity," the spokesperson added.

However, the latest advisory mentioned that some flights might experience delays or cancellations due to consequential impacts and extended re-routings or flight times. Air India affirmed its commitment to restoring its schedule and minimising disruptions.

"Air India will continue to avoid airspaces assessed as unsafe at any given time. We will keep passengers informed of any updates and sincerely appreciate their understanding. The safety and security of our passengers, staff, and aircraft remain our top priority," the spokesperson added.

Air India Express also temporarily suspended its flight operations to and from the Middle East region.

"Impacted guests are being notified of changes directly on the contact details registered with the airline. We request all guests to confirm their flight status and contact details on airindiaexpress.com for the latest updates," an Air India Express spokesperson said.

IndiGo
IndiGo also issued a travel advisory to its passenger around midnight, saying that its flight operations from Dubai, Doha, Bahrain, Dammam, Abu Dhabi, Kuwait, Ras AI-Khaimah and Tbilisi were impacted.

The airline said that it was actively monitoring the situation and adjusting its operations to ensure the safety of passengers and crew.

ALSO READ | Israel accepts ceasefire deal with Iran, says removed 'nuclear threat'
"We understand that diversions/delays disrupt travel plans, and we sincerely regret the inconvenience caused. Impacted customers are advised to check their flight status on our website or app and may explore alternate travel options available online," IndiGo posted on X.

Later on Tuesday morning, with a ceasefire taking effect between Israel and Iran, airports in the Middle East began to gradually reopen.

IndiGo said that with the latest development, it was "prudently and progressively resuming operations on these routes".

"We continue to monitor the situation closely and are fully considering the safest available flight paths to ensure secure and seamless travel. Please stay updated via our mobile app or website. Thank you for your continued understanding and trust," the airline posted the update on its X handle.

Akasa Air
Akasa Air's operations also took a hit around midnight due to the tense situation in the Middle East. The airline had posted on X that its flights to and from the region "may be impacted".

"We understand this may affect your travel plans and sincerely regret the inconvenience. Our teams are closely monitoring the evolving situation to ensure that all flight operations are within safe and approved airspace," it added.

ALSO READ | India evacuates nearly 3,000 nationals from Iran and Israel
Akasa Air requested its passengers to check their flight status before leaving for the airport. They also asked customers to contact their 24x7 care centre on +91 9606 112131.

SpiceJet
Some of SpiceJet airline's flights were also likely affected due to the growingly tense atmosphere in the Middle East, with Iran and Israel trading continuous fire and Iranian strikes hitting a US air base in Qatar.

ALSO READ | ‘Get me Bibi’: How Trump, his team brokered ceasefire between Israel, Iran
SpiceJet took to X and said, "Due to airspace closure in the Middle East, some of our flights may be affected. Passengers are advised to check their flight status at http://spicejet.com/#status or contact our 24*7 Reservation Helpline numbers at +91 (0)124 4983410 or +91 (0)124 7101600 for assistance."

Middle East tensions
Following an intense night of strikes on Iran and Israel, and on a US airbase in Qatar, US President Donald Trump announced a ceasefire between Tehran and Jerusalem.

Both Israel and Iran accepted the ceasefire plan proposed by Trump, bringing a halt to their 12-day war that shook the entire Middle East region.

Both sides accepted the ceasefire after Iran launched a final salvo of missiles at Israel, killing at least four persons early Tuesday morning. Meanwhile, Israel also launched airstrikes targeting sites across Iran before morning.